There’s something common
to every successful marriage
between two Christians.
It is their putting Jehovah first
and supporting
each other’s personal dedication to God.
This is certainly true
with Viv and Ann Mouritz,
serving
in the Australasia branch.
They’ve been married
for 65 years
and have
a combined 131 years
in full-time service.
Listen to their advice
for younger ones
deciding what to do
in Jehovah’s organization.
I started pioneering
in November 1948.
That’s a while ago now.
And that’s what I thought
I would do—pioneer.
So I said, “Well, Jehovah,
if I do what you ask me,
“I accept whatever assignment
you give me,
“and I’ll just go
where you send me,
and I won’t seek an assignment,
but I won’t refuse one.”
That’s all I intended to do
as far as I knew,
but then I had only been pioneering
about a year
when I got this envelope,
and the letter said:
“Please fill in the enclosed form.”
It was an application for Bethel,
and I thought,
‘Goodness, I didn’t think of Bethel.
I told Jehovah I’d go where he sent me,
so don’t argue, just do it.’
I was working in the printery
cleaning out old ink tins
and making schedules
for printing and so on.
And then I got to work
on the press too,
but I wasn’t there very long
when they moved me to the office.
Well, you learn a lot in Bethel.
You learn how to live
with your brothers,
which you’re not used to.
You learn about Jehovah’s organization
—you see how it operates.
I had the privilege of working alongside
brothers who had lots of experience.
I got assigned
to Metropolitan Congregation.
That’s where Ann was.
Yeah, we got married
in October 1951,
and two weeks later,
I started pioneering.
I was 20 at that time
when we started circuit work,
and I’d only pioneered for a year;
so of course I was very worried
and scared about having to witness
with sisters
that had pioneered for years
and some of them even of the anointed.
I cried halfway to Melbourne.
We got very close
to the brothers and sisters
and especially to the children,
so we really loved that.
And then we
got the opportunity to go
to New York
to the international convention
in 1958.
When the Society found out
we were going, they sent us
an application for Gilead,
and we thought, ‘Oh, my goodness.
How can we do that?’
So we said,
“Well, we don’t say no.”
After the ‘58 convention,
we were assigned to special pioneer
in Canada for six months.
Brother Knorr said
we were in cold storage,
so there were about 40 of us
from British Commonwealth countries.
So that was a good experience too.
We saw winter for the first time.
I did, anyway.
And we took pictures
of snow and ice and icicles
to show in our assignment when we
got into India or Africa or somewhere.
And Jehovah had a sense of humor;
he sent us to Finland.
Well, the schooling you get from Gilead
or the other schools
helps you to see Jehovah’s organization
and how it works.
We didn’t know a lot about Finland
except that we knew it was cold
and clean
and a long way from Australia.
Being so far from Australia,
we knew that we
wouldn’t be able to get home
to see our families,
not for a long, long time.
When we moved into Finland,
the brothers
in Russia and those countries
were under ban.
They needed spiritual food,
and so it had to be supplied to them.
So we used to send people in as tourists,
and they would meet
the brothers there
and deliver the food to them.
Without Jehovah’s blessing
and his spirit,
we couldn’t have done it at all.
It’s amazing to think
that the amount of spiritual food
that got in there,
they translated it,
and they made it available.
And we did that for over 20 years
without any mishaps.
It couldn’t happen
without Jehovah’s blessing.
Leaving Finland was not easy,
of course.
We had mixed feelings,
but, actually,
I saw Jehovah’s hand
in the assignment
because we really got back
to Australia
at a time when my parents
were needing help,
so we didn’t have to leave Bethel
or full-time service
to give that help.
We were asked
to go to Russia in 1999.
That turned out
to be two and a half years.
I was a little apprehensive
about going to Russia,
but it was really one of the most
memorable assignments
we’ve ever had.
In Russia, the brothers
were not used to house-to-house work
because of all the years under ban.
And that was quite different
because you go to the door;
you can’t just strike up a conversation.
The person wants to know
why you are there.
And you can’t make
a return visit on someone
you met on the street
—well, you don’t know
where he lives.
If you’ve called at his house, you do,
and you can make a return visit.
The brothers saw
the advantage of that.
But they had to learn.
It was a new thing.
Circuit overseers had to learn
how to visit congregations,
and Polish brothers came in
and helped a lot with that
—did circuit work—
but they too had to learn.
So it was a big change for them
to come from working
under ban all their lives
to now working the way
the rest of the world does.
The best decision I ever made
was to put my life
in Jehovah’s hands,
and to say, “You decide
where I go and what I do.”
I’ve had the feeling all along,
and it’s proven true so far,
that everything I have done
has been training for something else.
So, what I’m doing now
is still training.
It must be for the new world
because I haven’t got
much time left in this one.
What will it be?
Well, who knows?
So my recommendation
to everyone is:
Don’t decide for yourself.
Let Jehovah do it.
Brother and Sister Mouritz
always looked to Jehovah
for their assignments.
For Brother Mouritz,
that’s meant serving
on the Branch Committees
in Finland, India,
Russia, Poland, Ukraine,
and Australasia
and the privilege of making visits
to more than 70 countries
as a representative
of world headquarters.
We can certainly pursue
any form of service
that our circumstances allow.
But when we pray
for Jehovah’s direction,
we rely on him to send us
where it benefits his organization
and ourselves the most.